Google Hacking
The term “Google Hacking” was popularized
by Johnny Long in 2001.
Hey, that’s me!
Through several talks and an extremely
popular book,
he outlined how search engines like Google
could be used to uncover critical
information, vulnerabilities, and
misconfigured websites.
At the heart of this technique were clever
search strings and operators that allowed
creative refinement of search queries,
most of which work with a variety of
search engines.
The process is iterative, beginning with
a broad search,
which is narrowed down with operators to
sift out irrelevant
or uninteresting results.
Let’s try a few of these operators and get
a feel for how they work.
The site operator limits searches to a
single domain.
We can use this operator to get a rough
idea of an organization’s web presence.
We can then use further operators to
narrow these results.
For example, the filetype (or ext)
operator
limits search results to the specified
file type.
In this example, we combine operators to
locate PHP files on
the megacorpone.com domain.
We only get one result but it is an
interesting one.
Our query found the login page for an
instance of AlienVault,
a security information and event
management platform.
Usually these tools are only available on
internal networks.
We should note this URL as it might prove
useful if we can find user credentials to
login during the active exploitation
phase.
The ext and filetype operators could also
be helpful to discern what programming
languages might be used on a web site.
Searching for the jsp, cfm, and pl
extensions will find indexed
Java Server Pages, Adobe Coldfusion, and
Perl pages respectively.
We can also modify an operator using the
minus sign to exclude particular items
from a search, narrowing the results.
For example, to find interesting,
non-HTML pages,
we can exclude the HTML filetype from the
results.
In this case, we found several interesting
pages,
including an administrative console.
In another example, we can use a search
for intitle “index of” “parent directory”
to find pages that contain “index of” in
the title and the words “parent directory”
anywhere on the page.
The ouput refers to directory listing
pages
that list the file contents of the
directories without index pages.
Misconfigurations like this can reveal
interesting files
and sensitive information.
These basic examples only scratch the
surface of what we can do
with search operators.
The Google Hacking Database contains
multitudes of creative searches
that demonstrate the power of creative
searching with combined operators.
Mastery of these operators, combined with
a keen sense of deduction
are key skills for effective search engine
“hacking.”